Resources.md, before:

# Start Your Web Journey
Web is still one of the largest growing parts of the tech industries with [IOT](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2015/may/06/what-is-the-internet-of-things-google) Devices and personal assistance boom happening at the moment, this would be an easiest entry into the industry _per se_. 
## Handy Linkage

[FreeCodeCamp Guides](https://guide.freecodecamp.org/)

[DevDocs](http://devdocs.io/)

# Web Design
Makes your webpages more intuitive, the markup more maintable and uncover the subtle different browsers.
<br/>
<br/>
[Flexbox](https://medium.freecodecamp.com/an-animated-guide-to-flexbox-d280cf6afc35#.k9s9rseha) - An nice animated guide to Web Designers companion for responsive designs

[CSS Animations](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8kK-cA99SA0&list=PLqGj3iMvMa4LvJ8VctoXnPI0dtE40wfid) - Used to whispers a living breathing into webpages

[Pseudo Class Selectors](https://css-tricks.com/pseudo-class-selectors/) - Gain Mastery manipulating the shadow-DOM
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

# JavaScript Mastery
Organised in terms of difficulty. Don't worry if you understand what you read, coding is hard - an understatement. You can always come back, but some concepts may take longer to wrap your head round than others.

[Javascript for Cats](http://jsforcats.com) - A big leap here, **JavaScript** + Using the **Web Console** + **Cats**; try not to be too intimidated.

[Death of the For Loop](https://hackernoon.com/rethinking-javascript-death-of-the-for-loop-c431564c84a8#.ptzczddwb) - make your code pretty again with **map()**.

[Understand JavaScript's "this" With Clarity, and Master It](http://javascriptissexy.com/understand-javascripts-this-with-clarity-and-master-it) - Every OOP language employs 'this' to refer to abstract coding objects. Unfortunately with JavaScript there are some additional caveats you've got to learn too - see below

[.call(), .apply() and .bind() explained](https://medium.com/@owenyangg/javascript-call-apply-and-bind-explained-to-a-total-noob-63f146684564#.dni7a87om) - these function usually confuse developers from other languages, due to their nature with _this_. Aids with handling the OOP side with JS functional aspects

[What is a promise?](https://medium.com/javascript-scene/master-the-javascript-interview-what-is-a-promise-27fc71e77261#.jxkupvl21) - does what it says on the tin.

[The Promise of a Burger Party](https://kosamari.com/notes/the-promise-of-a-burger-party) - wrapping your head round promises, callbacks and asynchronous stuff, with burger analogies. Nom nom!

[Javascript Cheat Sheet](https://github.com/krishnr/JavaScript-cheat-sheet#callbacks) - a cheeky set of JavaScripts feature descript upsides and essentials

[What the heck is the event loop anyway](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8aGhZQkoFbQ) - video  with some handy visualisations, and fun hacks, let’s get an intuitive understanding of what happens when JavaScript runs.


[Higher Order Functions playlist - funfunfunction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BMUiFMZr7vk&list=PL0zVEGEvSaeEd9hlmCXrk5yUyqUag-n84) - regardless if it's JavaScript you are learning, understanding higher order functions, allows you master the functional programming side of coding.

[David Walsh Fetch Api Article](https://davidwalsh.name/fetch) - Total classic, API is just a fancy term of using a [libraries](https://www.quora.com/What-does-library-mean-in-the-case-of-programming-languages) to interact with another person program essentially
<br/>
<br/>

# Node
This help set a strong foundation JavaScript adoption across the code. JS once seen as toy-like client-side scripting language, is now a fully stacked language.

[The Art of Node](https://github.com/maxogden/art-of-node#the-art-of-node)

[NodeSchool (command line based)](https://nodeschool.io)

[Stream Handbook](https://github.com/substack/stream-handbook/blob/master/readme.markdown)
<br/>
<br/>

# Awesome Libraries
## React

[React Howto by Pete Hunt](https://github.com/petehunt/react-howto)

[React intro for people who know just enough jQuery to get by](http://reactfordesigners.com/labs/reactjs-introduction-for-people-who-know-just-enough-jquery-to-get-by/)

[9 things every React.js beginner should know](https://camjackson.net/post/9-things-every-reactjs-beginner-should-know)

[React Fundamentals - Tyler McGinnis](https://reacttraining.com/online/react-fundamentals)

[React FreeCodeCamp Beta](http://hysterical-amusement.surge.sh)
<br/>
<br/>

# Backend Stuff

## MongoDB

[The Net Ninja Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9OPP_1eAENg&list=PL4cUxeGkcC9jpvoYriLI0bY8DOgWZfi6u)
<br/>
<br/>

# Toolbelt
Can't be stressed enough, time spent invested into improving their environment. Helps them build faster, automate tedious processes. Just makes life a bit easier.
<br/>
<br/>

## Text Editors
A must for all developers, it's either that or microsofts notepad.
<br/>
<br/>

[Atom](https://atom.io/) - modern hackable text editor

+ [10 essential Atom add ons](https://www.sitepoint.com/10-essential-atom-add-ons/)
+ [12 Favorite Atom Tips and Shortcuts to Improve Your Workflow](https://www.sitepoint.com/12-favorite-atom-tips-and-shortcuts-to-improve-your-workflow/)
+ [Handy Atom Shortcuts](https://gist.github.com/chrissimpkins/5bf5686bae86b8129bee#atom_file)
+ [Atom Snippets](http://flight-manual.atom.io/using-atom/sections/snippets/)
<br/>
<br/>

## Boilerplates
Useful if you want something quick and easy to get off the ground.

[Express Generator](https://expressjs.com/en/starter/generator.html)

[Express Authentication Starter](https://github.com/sahat/hackathon-starter)
<br/>
<br/>

## Dependency Management
What if every everyone released the new version of their modules at the same time, and everyone updated the moment after. Simply put it, never gonna happen.

[Node Version Manager (NVM)](https://github.com/creationix/nvm) [Mac OSX and Linux]
Seemlessly manage the version of node, npm, npx. 
<br/>
<br/>

[Node Package Manager (NPM)](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started/what-is-npm) - Every other languages are jealous cause of this elegant dependency management help. Keeps tracks of all the modules/packages you download
<br/>
<br/>

[Gitkraken](https://www.gitkraken.com/) - UI friendly git for Git novices and professionals alike. Git is a software industry standard, so it's a must!

+ [Git and GitHub for Poets](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BCQHnlnPusY)
+ [Git for Noobs - command line](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JPKOESR1k04&t=1011s)
+ [Markdown Cheatsheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet)
<br/>
<br/>

## Task Runners + Bundler
1) Task Runners - used to automate, enable faster and efficient builds; enhances developer workflow, with plugins.
2) Bundlers - are task runners, and with asset loading optimisation.

[Gulp](https://gulpjs.com/) - simple, easy to learn task runner, producing efficient builds, automate task
+ [Gulp Basics with LevelUpTuts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wNlEK8qrb0M&list=PLLnpHn493BHE2RsdyUNpbiVn-cfuV7Fos)
+ [Express, Browsersync, Nodemon and Sass config](https://gist.github.com/Adam-Collier/973abbb109a39c8be1cd2000666d9c3e) - Full-Stack config starter back for gulp users
<br/>

[Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) - Builds a graph of dependencies makes loading dependencies faster and enables more modular code
+ [Getting Started with Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/guides/getting-started/)
<br/>
<br/>
# Testing
How do you know if the system you built works? The easy answer we usually don't. Still we can become more confident

Commit message:

split into, front end, back end, toolbelt and testing

Resources.md, after:

# Web development learning resources

## References

[FreeCodeCamp Guides](https://guide.freecodecamp.org/)

[DevDocs](http://devdocs.io/)

# Front End 
The practice of producing HTML, CSS and JavaScript for a website or Web Application so that a user can see and interact with them directly.
<br/>
<br/>
## CSS
[Flexbox](https://medium.freecodecamp.com/an-animated-guide-to-flexbox-d280cf6afc35#.k9s9rseha) - An nice animated guide to Web Designers companion for responsive designs

[CSS Animations](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8kK-cA99SA0&list=PLqGj3iMvMa4LvJ8VctoXnPI0dtE40wfid) - Used to whispers a living breathing into webpages

[Pseudo Class Selectors](https://css-tricks.com/pseudo-class-selectors/) - Gain Mastery manipulating the shadow-DOM
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

## JavaScript

[Javascript for Cats](http://jsforcats.com) - A big leap here, **JavaScript** + Using the **Web Console** + **Cats**; try not to be too intimidated.

[Death of the For Loop](https://hackernoon.com/rethinking-javascript-death-of-the-for-loop-c431564c84a8#.ptzczddwb) - make your code pretty again with **map()**.

[Understand JavaScript's "this" With Clarity, and Master It](http://javascriptissexy.com/understand-javascripts-this-with-clarity-and-master-it) - Every OOP language employs 'this' to refer to abstract coding objects. Unfortunately with JavaScript there are some additional caveats you've got to learn too - see below

[.call(), .apply() and .bind() explained](https://medium.com/@owenyangg/javascript-call-apply-and-bind-explained-to-a-total-noob-63f146684564#.dni7a87om) - these function usually confuse developers from other languages, due to their nature with _this_. Aids with handling the OOP side with JS functional aspects

[What is a promise?](https://medium.com/javascript-scene/master-the-javascript-interview-what-is-a-promise-27fc71e77261#.jxkupvl21) - does what it says on the tin.

[The Promise of a Burger Party](https://kosamari.com/notes/the-promise-of-a-burger-party) - wrapping your head round promises, callbacks and asynchronous stuff, with burger analogies. Nom nom!

[Javascript Cheat Sheet](https://github.com/krishnr/JavaScript-cheat-sheet#callbacks) - a cheeky set of JavaScripts feature descript upsides and essentials

[What the heck is the event loop anyway](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8aGhZQkoFbQ) - video  with some handy visualisations, and fun hacks, let’s get an intuitive understanding of what happens when JavaScript runs.


[Higher Order Functions playlist - funfunfunction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BMUiFMZr7vk&list=PL0zVEGEvSaeEd9hlmCXrk5yUyqUag-n84) - regardless if it's JavaScript you are learning, understanding higher order functions, allows you master the functional programming side of coding.

[David Walsh Fetch Api Article](https://davidwalsh.name/fetch) - Total classic, API is just a fancy term of using a [libraries](https://www.quora.com/What-does-library-mean-in-the-case-of-programming-languages) to interact with another person program essentially
<br/>
<br/>

## React

[React Howto by Pete Hunt](https://github.com/petehunt/react-howto)

[React intro for people who know just enough jQuery to get by](http://reactfordesigners.com/labs/reactjs-introduction-for-people-who-know-just-enough-jquery-to-get-by/)

[9 things every React.js beginner should know](https://camjackson.net/post/9-things-every-reactjs-beginner-should-know)

[React Fundamentals - Tyler McGinnis](https://reacttraining.com/online/react-fundamentals)

[React FreeCodeCamp Beta](http://hysterical-amusement.surge.sh)
<br/>
<br/>

# Back End
The backend of an application is responsible for things like calculations, business logic, database interactions, and performance.

## Node

[The Art of Node](https://github.com/maxogden/art-of-node#the-art-of-node)

[NodeSchool (command line based)](https://nodeschool.io)

[Stream Handbook](https://github.com/substack/stream-handbook/blob/master/readme.markdown)
<br/>
<br/>

## MongoDB

[The Net Ninja Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9OPP_1eAENg&list=PL4cUxeGkcC9jpvoYriLI0bY8DOgWZfi6u)
<br/>
<br/>

# Toolbelt
Can't be stressed enough, time spent invested into improving their environment. Helps developers build applications/websites faster and automate tedious processes. Just makes life a bit easier.
<br/>
<br/>

## Text Editors
<br/>
<br/>

[Atom](https://atom.io/) - modern hackable text editor

+ [10 essential Atom add ons](https://www.sitepoint.com/10-essential-atom-add-ons/)
+ [12 Favorite Atom Tips and Shortcuts to Improve Your Workflow](https://www.sitepoint.com/12-favorite-atom-tips-and-shortcuts-to-improve-your-workflow/)
+ [Handy Atom Shortcuts](https://gist.github.com/chrissimpkins/5bf5686bae86b8129bee#atom_file)
+ [Atom Snippets](http://flight-manual.atom.io/using-atom/sections/snippets/)
<br/>
<br/>

## Boilerplates
Useful if you want something quick and easy to get off the ground.

[Express Generator](https://expressjs.com/en/starter/generator.html)

[Express Authentication Starter](https://github.com/sahat/hackathon-starter)
<br/>
<br/>

## Dependency Management
What if every everyone released the new version of their modules at the same time, and everyone updated the moment after. Simply put it, never gonna happen.

[Node Version Manager (NVM)](https://github.com/creationix/nvm) [Mac OSX and Linux]
Seemlessly manage the version of node, npm, npx. 
<br/>
<br/>

[Node Package Manager (NPM)](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started/what-is-npm) - Every other languages are jealous cause of this elegant dependency management help. Keeps tracks of all the modules/packages you download
<br/>
<br/>

## Version Control

[Gitkraken](https://www.gitkraken.com/) - UI friendly git for Git novices and professionals alike. Git is a software industry standard, so it's a must!


[Git and GitHub for Poets](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BCQHnlnPusY)
[Git for Noobs - command line](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JPKOESR1k04&t=1011s)
[Markdown Cheatsheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet)
<br/>
<br/>

## Task Runners + Bundlers
1) Task Runners - used to automate, enable faster and efficient builds; enhances developer workflow, with plugins.
2) Bundlers - are task runners, and with asset loading optimisation.

[Gulp](https://gulpjs.com/) - simple, easy to learn task runner, producing efficient builds, automate task
+ [Gulp Basics with LevelUpTuts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wNlEK8qrb0M&list=PLLnpHn493BHE2RsdyUNpbiVn-cfuV7Fos)
+ [Express, Browsersync, Nodemon and Sass config](https://gist.github.com/Adam-Collier/973abbb109a39c8be1cd2000666d9c3e) - Full-Stack config starter back for gulp users
<br/>

[Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) - Builds a graph of dependencies makes loading dependencies faster and enables more modular code
+ [Getting Started with Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/guides/getting-started/)
<br/>
<br/>
# Testing
How do you know if the system you built works? The easy answer we usually don't. Still we can become more confident
